# Rob2628's Diablo 4 Paladin and S11 Cheat Sheet

## Welcome/news

Find out about the newest developments in META, Builds & Diablo 4 in general.
My Season 12 Leveling Plan
1. Start 
Cpt America
 Paladin for fastest leveling in Helltides (start Hard then go Penitent)
2. Rush Paragon 
Nodes
 on T1 for max DPS
3. Start farming Lair Bosses for Mantle of the Grey (Greg/Urivar) & Ward of the White Dove

 (Varashan)
4. Blast Pits to Level Glyphs & do all Capstone Dungeons
5. Focus on gaing Butcher Rreputation & start doing T5 Infernal Hordes for insane EXP/h
6. Possibly switch to Blessed Hammer for Ultra Speed Farming or The Butcher Build if base damage is high/META!

In Season 12 the Powerlevel of Builds dropped quite a bit due to Sancitification being gone and the 

Paladin Legendary Castle Paragon node on Paladin being capped.
We are also getting the introduction for Torment V with the new Blood Sigils so Endgame Content is gonna be quite challenging early on.
We are even getting up to 12 Torment Tiers in April with the Lord of Hatred Expansion! So make sure to choose a strong A- or S-Tier Build from the updated Tier List

## Leveling/strategy

Pick a 
Leveling Build
 - Here is also a Video Guide Getting to Level 60 ASAP
1. Start the game on Normal
 (Hard for experienced players) to begin your Journey - Create a Seasonal Character, Start game & equip your Pet (press "I" click Wardrobe) to auto pickup gold mats
2. Grab your Mercenary
 (Expansion only) by traveling to the Den in Nahantu. You will level the Merc Rapport to unlock skills & legendary rewards at the Bartering & get 2nd Merc Reinforcement
3. Start the Season Quest & earn first Journey Rewards + Start the Season 11 Questline "A Divine Missive" to earn reputation - Loot 1 Herb on the way & craft the lvl 10 Precision Elixier at the Alchemist for bonus XP
4. Go do Helltide - focus on becoming the Butcher & earn Reputation!
5. During 5m Helltide Breaks do the first Capstone Dungeon
6. More Helltide on Normal or higher depending on your power. If you want to go giga fast: You can also do the start of the Vessel of Hatred Campaign (Expansion only!) on Normal
7. ONCE YOU ARE Level 50 > You can do Strongholds on NORMAL (same experience as in Hard / Expert) or you keep grinding Helltides & more Druiel & Maggots or do Kurast Undercity a few times on Normal or Hard difficutly
8. At 50-60 do 2nd Capstone Dungeon
 "Helltish Decent" in Scosglen for additional Skill Points + Pits I recommend doing this AFTER the Stronghold as the final Boss can be pretty hard at just lvl 50. Alternatively you can do the Pit after the 2nd Capstone & get to 60 super quick if you are strong
Getting to T1 Once 60 Change Difficulty to Penitent - Temper reroll & imprint your gear, equip runes, gamble Obols
Start Pits & do a T10 to unlock T1 Difficulty. Pit can now even be entered before lvl 60 & Pit 10 is unlocked right away!
Getting into Endgame Pick an Endgame Build
Once on T1 I recommend doing Helltide. Once you have mats run Lair Bosses to get Uniques, Loottable
Get higher chances for Ancestral & Mythic items in group! But solo is also fine!
Do the 3rd Capstone Dungeons in Kehjistan after you feel comfortable on T1 to unlock more Paragon Points (around Paragon 25)
After you are comfortable in T4 do the 4th Capstone Dungeon (around Paragon 50)
Keep Blasting finish your Character & unlock more Torments Levels by completing the Pits & do 5th Capstone (around Paragon 75)
Dont slack & have fun!!

## Endgame Tips and tricks

- Pick a META Build [here](https://d4builds.gg/rob2628/builds/?season=12)
- Focus on farming Paragon Levels check out the Paragon & XP Calculator [here](https://d4pit.netlify.app/)


